a token is a node if its a terminal

node(_n) ->
      operator(_n - 1, )



  2   1   3   1
a * 3 + b ^ 7 + 0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9  indices
a        b
*        ^
3        7
1     2  3    4 5 indices

done in the next step

node looks left and right, chooses the highest precidence (where is associativity)
operator to bind to. an operator that has his slots filled becomes a node

so in a fixed point system, thats all we need. in paccland we have a general
prohibition against writing things, or at least writing things that can also be read
(nursery/finalize/pupate). i guess we can assume that we will be creating a
new world at each step. if so, then we dont have to worry about finding peers...
we do need to .. find the send addresses. which i guess is a contextualized scan
in the old space? i mean, we have to construct this numbering whether its up
front or on demand. 

i guess the alternative is a linking structure? that seems more natural than
the scan representation (?). we would need next and prev....still leaves the
issue of the scan/send world hopping mechanism.

associativity is to determine the reduction ordering in the case where
the precedences are equal (i.e 1 + 2 + 3).

still not 100% clear on the rules surrounding the ternary operator.

we are going to posit that if a reduction happens, then that precludes
a reduction occuring on the adjacent node. if this is true, then the
pointers from the reduction are well known (next of the right node,
previous of the left). however, we do need to 'update' the prev of the
next, and the next of the prev. i am presuming(?) that we can use direct
references (the pacc version of pointers) instead of maintaining a linear
relationship?

the total number of steps is the height of the parse tree ( O(n)
Ω(log₂n)..not quite base 2 because of the ternary operator).

so then each of these steps takes a world and makes a world. it would
be handy then if this primordial world only had objects of a single
shape. i mean generic objects, terms and operators should be
distinguished i guess.

and we're kinda stuck copying the lexical context through all this.
 
for the binary case.

   1) i'm an operator with a precedence 𝓅 ...oh so pretty..but kinda .. anyways,
   if my prevs prev and my nexts next both have precdence < 𝓅, then i reduce

   2) (associativity in the case where one of those is 𝓅)

   in order to update my prevs prevs next pointer (and my nexts next prev),
   i can assert the new state - there are no conflicts. however, the other
   'pointer' of the same object might be modified by some other reduction.

   can i keep the pointers as separate objects? that would make sense? how
   would I implement step 1 without doing an order n scan to find the
   next pointer? i can use the node as a key? right, so i can implement
   the next and prev functions concretely, simply by building the appropriate
   map/index when constructing the new world. and i guess i'd need to be
   able to iterate over all the operators. i could have 2 relations,
   one for next(op, node) and one for next(node, op). does that help in any way?
   (i.e. by allowing us to use the range or domain as the set of operators)

   we can also try to use union to make local changes...i guess obscuring keys
   through a union is something that is normal. infix map lookup

(if (reduce w)
    (operator x)
    (> x.precedence right.(right.x).precedence) ; 0.0 -> 0!
    (> x.precedence left.(left.x).precedence)
    (union {right:right.(right.x)
            left:left.(left.x)
            op:w.x
            left
            right} w))
